#summary goofs-0.3 is available. New support for Google Contacts!
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= goofs-0.3 is available =
goofs-0.2 is available now.  There are now 2 backends complete: picasa and contacts.  These features allow you to manipulate your picasa photos or your gmail contacts just as you would any other file on the filesytem.  


= details =

picasa backend includes support for:
  * creating albums
  * deleting albums
  * creating photos
  * deleting photos
  * renaming photos
  * updating photo content

contact backend supports:
  * creating contacts
  * deleting contacts
  * renaming contacts
  * editing phone, email, notes, organization and address metadata

= requirements =
  * python-fuse
  * python-gdata
  * subversion (optional - only needed if you do not use the goofs-0.3 download)

first make sure you have the latest and greatest python-gdata

{{{
sudo apt-get remove python-gdata
}}}

then install python-gdata according to the instructions at
http://code.google.com/p/gdata-python-client/

finally install the remaining dependencies

{{{
sudo apt-get install python-fuse subversion
}}}

= installation =

Download the goofs source code with subversion
{{{
svn checkout http://goofs.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ goofs-0.2-read-only
}}}

Or download it from the downloads page and unpack it:

http://goofs.googlecode.com/files/goofs-0.2.tar.gz

{{{
tar -zxvf goofs-0.2.tar.gz
}}}

= running goofs =

cd into the src/goofs directory

{{{
python goofs.py mntpoint
}}}

You will be prompted to enter you google username and password.  The username is your full google username (i.e. bigwynnr@gmail.com).

mntpoint should now contain a contacts directory.  This directory will hold up to 1000 of your google contacts.  Any changes you make on the filesystem will be reflected when you log in to Gmail.

To create a new contact cd into the contacts directory and then

{{{
mkdir Christina
}}}

Now you can cd into that directory and edit attributes associated with Christina. 

{{{
cd Christina
echo "a wonderful girl" >> notes
cd email
echo "chrissy@home.org" >> home
echo "chrissy@work.org" >> work
}}}

To rename a contact

{{{
cd contacts
mv Christina Chrissy
}}}

To delete a Contact
{{{
cd contacts
rm -rf Chrissy
}}}

mntpoint should also contain a photos directory.  Inside photos you will find 2 more directories, namely public and private.  Your shared picasa albums go into public and your private albums go into private.  

goofs will immediately begin synching the local filesystem with your existing picasa photos.  You may have to wait a couple seconds for albums and photos to start showing up.  

to create a new album you would simply create a new folder under private or public.  to upload photos to the album you would cp or save images directly under the album directory.
you can only save the following types of images: .bmp, .gif, .png, .jpg, and .jpeg.

to move photos between albums you would simply use the mv command.
{{{
cd photos/public/Album1
mv should_be_in_album2.jpg ../Album2
}}}

deleting albums and photos is as easy as using the rmdir and rm commands
{{{
rm photos/public/Album1/*
rmdir photos/public/Album1
}}}